I teach psychology at Cal State Fullerton University. Uh, in particular.
I teach bio psychology, which is kind of the intersection of biology
and then psychology. Eso We're kind of looking at psychological
constructs like cognition and emotions and behavior through the lens
of biology. So when you're angry, what is what's going on in your brain?
What's going on in your body like what's changing versus when
you're not angry? Um, I teach that as a lecture. I also have a lab component
to that, and then the other classes that I teach. I teach psychopharmacology,
which is specifically looking at how drugs and other
substances affect the brain and how then that plays out into things
like changes in behavior and changes in perception. Um, and we also
cover, like addiction and things like that on day. Then I teach
intermediate research methods and statistics, which is awesome class,
where we're kind of putting together the information that students
learn about basic statistics with the information they learn about
basic research design. So we're kind of now looking at them both simultaneously
on bond answering questions like, Well, if this is, you
know, if this is how I planned my experiment. Then what kind of statistics
do I need to use Thio? Show what I want to show on DSO There's
the four classes that I teach. Um and other, Aside from my teaching,
I also do research. And the main focus of my personal research is
looking at how what we eat effects, how we feel. So I'm the kind of
formal version of that is the effect of nutrition on mental health
and learning and in mental when I say mental health, what I'm really
looking at is depression and anxiety. Eso yeah, essentially, I'm just
looking at you know how what we eat effects, how we feel and how
we learn. And I think it's a really fascinating, uh, topic at one of
the things I love about it is that it's very accessible, like all of
us eat. All of us eat every single day. Most of us eat, and what we
are eating has some really strong impacts on how we're feeling and
how we're learning. The other thing that I do in terms of research
is I'm part of a research group on campus that looks at, um, fibromyalgia,
which is a disease state that, uh, the main feature of it is
pain. So we look at fibromyalgia and also other types of diseases that
are plagued by pain. Um, and this is, ah, study where we've it's
called a longitudinal study where we've actually followed people over.
Now it's over a decade, and they come in every couple of years, and
we take a lot of bunch of we take a lot of different measurements
from them. So we look at things like, you know, how are they moving?
We have a lot of physical measurements. We also have cognitive measurements.
So we give them a lot of like cognitive tests on day. Then
we also do like, you know, emotional test like, How are you feeling
that kind of stuff? And then we take all sorts of other data on them.
On Ben, we can look at the data. We can look at it year by year,
so we could look at just a given year, and we have people who have
fibromyalgia and other pain conditions, and we also have people who
don't. So we we kind of these air are control groups. Eso we can compare
people within a given year. But we can also look at people across
here so we can see how you know, for instance, one of the questions
that I'm working on right now is for the people who have fibromyalgia
are the ones who are taking particular types of medications in
this case, antidepressants. Are they faring better over time? Compared
Thio? People who have fibromyalgia who aren't taking antidepressants.
And so that's the question that were that I am personally looking
at in this Richard group right now.